---
Title:       Contact Us
ShortTitle:  Contact
Author:      Global Pollen Project Team
Affiliation: Global Pollen Project
Date:        3rd February, 2023
Icon:        address-card
Intro:       Please find contacts below
---

For general enquiries, you can email the Global Pollen Project Team at [info@globalpollenproject.org](mailto:info@globalpollenproject.org). The project is currently led by Andrew Martin, School of Geography and Environment, University of Oxford. 

For more specific enquiries, please see the best contacts below.

#### I am interested in digitising a pollen reference collection that I curate

Thank you for your interest. If you have queries about our digitisation tools and digitisation process, or would like a demonstration of the process, please contact Dr Andrew Martin at [andrew.martin@ouce.ox.ac.uk](mailto:andrew.martin@ouce.ox.ac.uk).

#### I've found a bug or have encountered an issue

We keep track of bugs on our [GitHub issues page](https://github.com/AndrewIOM/gpp-cqrs/issues). If you are familiar with GitHub, you may open a new issue and we will address it when able. If you're not a GitHub user, you can also email us at [admin@globalpollenproject.org](mailto:admin@globalpollenproject.org) to report bugs or problems.

#### I would like to collaborate or contribute financially

Please have a look at [our current roadmap here](https://github.com/AndrewIOM/gpp-cqrs/milestones). If you have ideas or would like to collaborate further, please [send us an email](mailto:info@globalpollenproject.org).

As part of ensuring the long-term provision of the Global Pollen Project, we are considering establishing a stewardship group. If you are interested this, please [send us an email](mailto:info@globalpollenproject.org).

The Global Pollen Project has some maintainance costs that are currently unmet from grant funding. If you can help, let us know.

#### I wish to use the whole database for a project

You can use [the API](/Guide/API) to access the contents of our database, including images. Please be mindful of our [citation guidelines and attribution requirements of the licenses used](/Guide/Cite). If you are intending to make substantial use of the whole database, please let us know so we can track project impact at [this email](mailto:info@globalpollenproject.org).